Con
1. It is unlikely to eliminate nuclear weapons because of its unfeasibility. Ensuring everyone does not hold even a single nuclear warhead is scarcely possible.
“Disposing of an entire category of weapons in this way would require a monitoring and a verification regime that goes far beyond what can currently be reconciled with the sovereignty of nation states. States that always vehemently insist on noninterference in their internal affairs — for instance, when it comes to human rights — would have to agree to a form of international monitoring unimaginable to them. One can hardly visit North Korea, let alone check for nuclear weapons.”
2. Nuclear weapons can maintain security. And finding a reliable alternative to nuclear deterrence is very difficult.
“Devoid of a nuclear deterrent, the world would immediately become more dangerous. If military assets were limited to conventional weapons, nations would experience fewer inhibitions against armed conflict. This would hold true even for the major powers. With disincentives to conflict reduced, the renewal of conventional arms races would likely be unstoppable. This would have an important effect on, among other things, national budgets. Today, at least for nuclear weapon states, the existence of a nuclear deterrent allows for drastic reductions in defense spending during times of austerity.”
“States have developed nuclear deterrents for a variety of reasons, but chief among these—whether for the great powers, or for middle powers such as India, Pakistan, and Israel—has been threat perception. Until the threats that have led these powers to acquire nuclear weapons are permanently eliminated, it is difficult to envision them agreeing to disarm completely. For example, Pakistan’s security and policy establishment will never agree to total disarmament until Pakistan feels secure vis-ˆ-vis India, its more powerful neighbor and its geopolitical rival. A similar argument could be made about Israel. The world will have to become much more adept at peacefully solving or at least managing its regional conflicts, whether through a universal security architecture or a multiplicity of regional architectures, for the middle powers in particular to perceive complete disarmament as safe.”
3. Most nuclear weapons States do not want to give up their nuclear weapons. In their point of view, nuclear weapons do not cause the tension, reversely, they offer themselves security interests.
“Pakistan has nuclear weapons because it feels threatened by India, and India became a nuclear weapons state out of fear of China. Moscow is expanding its nuclear arsenal to compensate for Russian inferiority in the conventional field.
North Korea strives to obtain nuclear weapons because it considers itself to be at war with virtually the entire world, and as for France, its status as a nuclear weapons state still makes up part of its international self-confidence. One may argue about each of these justifications, but for the countries in question, they are absolutely compelling.”
4. It is unclear that a nuclear weapons-free world would be steady or not even if the nuclear weapons are successfully disarmed.
“The knowledge of nuclear fission and nuclear fusion is out there, and the know-how to build nuclear weapons cannot be erased. Uranium and plutonium are produced every day. And if a state should decide to use the nuclear option in a conflict to attain a decisive advantage, it would probably take only weeks to manufacture the first nuclear warhead. What would it mean for international stability if every serious crisis resulted in a race to be the first to obtain a nuclear weapon?”
5. Nuclear weapons have preventing the war effectively since they were created decades ago. A direct military conflict has never happened between two nuclear countries, those States who have no nuclear weapons have ever been invaded and nuclear-armed States have never been the target of a major States attack.
“Two studies have shown that the possession of nuclear weapons by two countries significantly reduced the likelihood of war between them (Pasley, 2008; Rauchhaus, 2009). Events in Asia since 1949 provide an interesting test case. China and India fought a war in 1962, but have refrained from resorting to arms against each other ever since. There were three India-Pakistan wars (1962, 1965 and 1971) before both countries became nuclear; but since the late 1980s (when the two countries acquired a minimum nuclear capability), none of the two has launched any significant air or land operations against the other.”
“Israel was invaded in 1948, on the day of its independence. But in 1973, Arab States deliberately limited their operations to disputed territories (the Sinai and the Golan Heights). It is thus incorrect to take the example of the Yom Kippur war as a “proof” of the failure of nuclear deterrence. Likewise, India refrained from penetrating Pakistani territory at the occasion of the crises of 1990, 1999, 2002 and 2008, whereas it had done so in 1965 and 1971. Another example is sometimes mistakenly counted as a failure of nuclear deterrence: the Falklands War (1982).”
“The United States refrained from invading Cuba in 1962, for instance, but did not hesitate in invading Grenada, Panama or Iraq. The Soviet Union invaded Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Afghanistan, but not a single US ally.”
6. Nuclear deterrence has declined the risks of proliferation. No nuclear-endowed
States have ever been attacked by the chemistry or biology
“Security guarantees (“nuclear umbrellas”) have limited the risk of nuclear proliferation. The role of such guarantees in the prevention of proliferation seems to be wellestablished.4 In Europe, from the late 1940s through the 1960s, several countries were tempted to develop nuclear programs, and then gave up in no small part due to the US commitment to defend its NATO allies, including by nuclear means: this was the case for Norway and Germany, but also Sweden. In Asia, the US nuclear umbrella has permitted a dampening of the nuclear temptation in Japan, South Korea and Australia. Of course, the existence of a nuclear guarantee is not always “necessary” or “sufficient” to prevent a State from going nuclear (see the case of France). Still, extended nuclear deterrence has proven to be one of the best non-proliferation measures ever devised.”