Complete nuclear disarmament is a dangerous and impossible chimera. And there are some main reason to prove it.
1. First, as a means for maintaining security, it is difficult to identify a credible alternative to nuclear deterrence. As everyone knows, once nuclear weapons are operated by terrorist force, both human and wild life or even our planet will be in great danger. Have to say, we can't guarantee it's totally impossible for terrorists to develop nuclear weapons and whether they'd like to "signature on treaties" and follow them. So in order to maintain security, “Zero” can't be the Right Target for Disarmament.
2. Second, it's impossible to manage a world without nuclear weapons. If the world were essentially one big “peace cartel,” this cartel would be very fragile indeed. . In a world without nuclear weapons, breaking one’s cartel commitments by developing a nuclear deterrent would seem to have enormous security benefits.
3. Third, it's difficult to effect a transition to a nuclear-free world. What should we do with existing nuclear weapons? And how to comfort those scientists who pay a lot for developing nuclear weapons? something that can be achieved is gaining a universal commitment by nuclear weapon states not to use these weapons first. According to information we can get above, more countries have given up nuclear weapons programmes than have kept them. But about nuclear weapons those have already produce , all we can do is just don't use them.
4. Also, if our target is "zero" then one would have to ensure that no one is keeping or hiding even a single nuclear warhead. It's much harder than the policy itself. And most of countries do not want to cede their nuclear weapons. If someone force them to give up their warhead, there will probably be greater conflict.
5. At last, how much warhead a country have do not conflict with it follow the rule .For example, according to the data on the internet. United States has 7,260 warheads while North korea gets 10.But the former is committing to negotiate with the latter to achieve denuclearization. So in that case, the most important thing is not how many nuclear weapons does an individual get, but the use tendency of nuclear weapons.