CON
“Zero” is not the right target for disarmament.
First of all,nuclear weapons act as a deterrence. If we disarmed nuclear weapons com
pletely,the world situation would become more dangerous without any deterrents.And
the existence of nuclear deterrence enable the government to drastically reduce the
defense spending for a hard time. What’s more, if every
country’s military assets became only conventional arsenals,the number of
conflicts between different countries would increase steeply and this state may lead to
a conventional arm race starting again.
Secondly,managing the world which has no nuclear weapons is really difficult. Becau
se there must be a universal regime being established to achieve the aim of complete d
isarmament,but that is almost impossible forever.For instance,if we compare our word
to a big “peace cartel”,the cartel would be very delicate.When a state went nuclear
firstly,the regime of nonproliferation would disintegrate drastically.Take Iran as an
example,Iron is ambitious to the nuclear weapons,so this policy of nonproliferation
can curb its ambition effectively.But as long as there was a revolt,the regime would
completely fall apart.
Thirdly,it would be difficult to transit to a nuclear-free world.So far,a lot of countries
such as Pakistan,India and Israel have developed nuclear deterrents somehow.It is
almost impossible for them to achieve the agreement of complete disarmament until
the threats which have led these powers to acquire nuclear weapons are permanently
eliminated,just like the security and policy institution of Pakistan won’t allow to
disarm until Pakistan considers India has no threats to it.
To conclude,the purpose of eliminating the nuclear weapons is lofty while nearly
impossible.For example,The United recently announced an international ban on
nuclear weapons.Some countries consider it as a landmark of a safer world ,but
actually it leads to a severe political fallout as the countries which didn’t join then ban
being criticized harshly.Obama was awarded the Nobel Peace prize because he made
the case for a world without any nuclear weapons.During his term of office,indeed,he
did like this,he found it was just a illusion to believe that this requirement would ever
be realized.
First,it’s impossible to abolish all the nuclear weapons.If we wanted to make sure that
no one keep or hide even a single nuclear warhead,a kind of international monitoring
would be adopted.That is imaginable for some countries including North Korea when
it comes to human rights.
Second,most of nuclear countries use nuclear weapons to protect themselves.Such as
Pakistan has nuclear arsenals because of the threat from India.India becomes a nuclear
country due to the fear of another nuclear country--China.People may argue about the
justifications while the clients,or in other words,the countries in question,they are
certainly compelling.
Third,even if we can disarm completely and successfully,we still don’t know what the
world will be after this disarmament.Weapons are disarmed but the knowledge and
skills of producing nuclear weapons will be still out there.So this is actually
meaningless for the world stability.
Ban on nuclear weapons can help to placate humans’ conscience in such an insecure
world,but meaningless in enhance the stability of this world which nuclear weapons
have already existed.But that doesn’t mean to give up disarming,what we can do is to
reduce the number of nuclear arsenals and prevent nuclear weapon states from using
nuclear weapons.